Know of.
I don't know all of us,
but the status is there is a repo with
Selenium tests in the Azure.
However,
we stopped working on this at the end of
2025.
It.
It's a constant topic, though.
I think that this is a good way to run
tests in a reusable way to cover
regression, etc.
But we just didn't have the time in the
last month with all the pressure and
complexity and let's face it,
chaos with the client. Nevertheless,
We want to get started here again,
pick up where we left,
and also probably try to get more people
into this process of creating these tests.
And this is precisely what we want to
talk about today.
Max and I had an exchange here,
and we see some potential in
For example,
him or any non-technical person taking
part in this by providing business flows
as recorded sessions in the UI.
Because usually the people who work with
the system who test it
are most of the time or oftentimes
business people,
and they can provide this knowledge to us
in a structured way.
This is exactly the idea I want to
present here today.
It is a little prototype as well,
and I've created 3 end-to-end tests with
it so far.
But let me quickly go through it. Maybe.
Now would be the time.
But Valentin would be valuable not to
miss the intro.
Game should also work.
And Team.
But...
I cannot click it, what's that?
Strange.
Now, it worked.
It seems to take.
He'll be joining any second, I think.
Okay.
By the way, we still only see the...
MD file.
File or...
The raw code, no.
No, no, no.
That's intended.
Okay.
That's the new PowerPoint.
Pegas.
Hi, Valentin. Sorry that I didn't add you.
I just...
Quick meeting set up yesterday evening,
probably I was too sleepy.
All right, so...
We want to introduce a new way of how we
record the metadata for business flows
Todor.
within the UI to speed up the process of
creating end-to-end tests.
So the problem is, like I said,
it's quite tedious to create end-to-end
tests. We also know
They are quite weak when it comes to
resilience regarding template changes.
Usually you have to rewrite a lot of the
tests when you do that. Also,
the ability to record instead of just
code these tests is not very mature.
There's Playwright Coach Gen,
there's the Chrome DevOps Recorder,
and there's also Selenium Studio,
I think it's called,
and the Selenium Recorder.
I did check them out.
All of them have their weaknesses.
Most of them fail with drag and drop,
because that's just a difficult technical
pattern to track.
So that's the circumstances,
and also you have to deeply understand
the Angular internals to write these
tests,
which excludes any non-technical people
like product owners from actually
contributing here, besides, of course,
delivering test cases like Max just did.
Now,
the core idea is to come up with some
kind of, I call it UI domain mapping,
which makes an explicit contract,
literally.
So it frames what literally the UI
consists of in terms of domain value.
Like a lot card is a valuable and aligned
element, right? When we say lot card,
we don't think in Angular.
We think in this UI thing everybody knows.
on all stakeholder sites.
And this is precisely the contract we are
codifying. So we say with the test ID,
which I think is a common pattern anyway
in end-to-end tests,
this Angular component represents the lot
card
domain UI element.
That's basically what's behind it.
We started with 15 elements only in a
little POC, but by now Max has provided,
I just saw the numbers, 96 of them.
So that's the basic for the two
directions we want to go.
One is the recorder,
which records clicks in the UI, and two,
the resulting tests that can also refer
to this domain mapping list.
Here are some examples.
I think they are quite obvious.
A lot card would be lot card followed
with the ID.
The important thing here is that we have
dynamic and static UI element,
UI domain elements, obviously.
Branch selector, for example, is static.
It's A one-time element statically
available at the top,
while others appear and disappear
throughout the flow you go through as a
user on the UI.
Of course,
this catalog is probably growing over the
time. Right now, like I said,
we started with 15,
and they were enough to prove that three
flows could be recorded and transformed
into working end-to-end tests.
Yeah.
So what does this mapping achieve?
Like I said,
it's a contract between Angular on the
one hand, the recorder on the other hand.
We'll see that in a bit.
via the JSON format it creates,
or which it represented by.
The JSON format is literally a contract.
And with this JSON format,
we can then go into generators for
Playwright and Selenium. Right now,
I did it with Playwright because honestly,
I completely forgot about Selenium world
when I started out, but it
I think it really doesn't matter. With AI,
you create such a test from a flow in 30
seconds.
And then, of course, some tweaking.
So that's the idea behind it in terms of
data contract.
Now to the assertion model.
So this is after we've created the test
and we want to make sure it fulfills the
actual purpose of the end-to-end test.
We have to have, I think,
a little bit of a different assertion
model than we usually would have.
So there's different categories. You have,
of course,
you have a navigation category where you
tell the test where to go.
You have interaction, clicking, selecting,
filling, dragging could grow, of course.
Then you have the expectation,
what someone sees in the UI, and again,
only on the selected and defined UI
domain mappings.
If an element is not defined as UI domain
model, then it cannot
be asserted.
That's the closing of the loop.
And then, of course,
you have some context when dialogues open
and close.
This is also relevant to check in an
end-to-end test.
Good. What's the time? 42.
I would just go through this and then we
can discuss questions and also look at
the prototype.
Good, then what? Yeah,
that's exactly a core differentiation.
It might look like it's just a replay
framework in the first glance,
but really it is not.
Under the hood,
it tracks everything that becomes visible,
even in a dynamic way,
even with waiting times,
because we have asynchronous updates on
the UI.
But they all get tracked by this flow
recorder that is part of the tool chain.
So in the end,
it's quite automatic what happens and
what is recorded and what the E2E and
finally users can still be decided when
the test is created.
But we can look at that in a bit.
Here is an example. In the early phase,
I just had kind of a replay functionality,
which doesn't really make sense, right?
Of course, you can cause clicks,
but that doesn't give you anything.
So the second approach where I extended
the assertion model was really
the one where it clicked,
because then you can go and say,
I want to check for a certain amount of
lots,
or a certain value must be present in
this space of the UI, et cetera.
So why does this potentially speed up the
creation? Traditionally,
we only have test cases in written form
in an Excel or it's in the story or
somewhere else.
Then someone interprets this and writes
the test. All good, it works,
but it's slow. Now.
Someone, in this case,
I refer to it as the PO and most of the
time,
just opens the recorder in the running
app on test, I guess,
clicks through the real UI.
That way, the JSON gets created,
a generator takes the JSON,
creates the first draft of the test,
and then we finish it.
So that's the potential we talk about.
And maybe to show you quickly how it
looks.
I did record yesterday a little bit,
so this is just a video,
but you get the idea. So I'm on the app.
I clicked this. Do you see my mouse?
I click this bookmarklet here in my
toolbar of Chrome, Naga, Kyle Disposition,
and this introduced a button here at the
top which says Rec, Record.
I can click that button and now the flow
tracking started based on the defined
UI domain mapping elements.
And I just do what I want to cover in
that flow. In this case, it's, I think,
creation of transport order from Leicht.
I go through it.
All of these things are now tracked.
And once it's done, I stop the recording.
Of course,
I wait for it to really finish all the
activities. Now it's stopped,
and as you can see, it...
Downloaded the JSON file. I mean,
that's really the MVP style currently.
The JSON file with the recorded flow.
Now,
maybe we can look at the JSON quickly.
Ohh.
So.
Oh.
End to end, oops,
I think I moved something.
Flows, here it is.
So that's what's coming out of this
recording.
Version just zero recorded.
When was it recorded on which URL?
What were the steps?
Each one with a time stamp.
This is interesting because we can derive
waiting times from it in the test later.
Usually at some stage you have to work
with timeouts. This is what...
You can use it for and we have these
so-called auto-generated ones.
which is part of the assertion model. So,
for example,
when I drag a leg to create a new lot,
a new lot shows up right after.
This is an auto-generated assertion,
so the new lot will appear.
appear here as expected visible,
and we can then later in the test work
with that information.
So this is what comes out in terms of the
flow file and then the actual test looks
like I think this is.
This was this one, create, no, sorry,
create transport order.
That's it.
So,
there's some basic stuff the AI skill
always adds, which is login.
And some basic stuff.
That's always part of every test.
And then it starts, obviously,
with going to that view page.
And everything from here is auto-created.
So it did see that we want to watch lot
cards and ship cards,
so it creates these selectors.
Then it clicked the HR filter.
I think I didn't put that in the video,
but that's an additional step I did.
Then it did check if the spinner is
hidden.
That was also something it noticed.
Then it checked the first lot card.
If that's a simplified version of
creating a transport order from the leg,
just take the first lot and from that the
first leg.
So that's these two steps.
And then it starts the dragging.
This is a bit of a custom.
helper I made,
because it was a bit difficult to
simulate these track and drop things,
as you probably learned yourself already.
And like I said in the beginning,
the other tools also are not able to do
this with this little help,
but we can actually simulate it.
And if you watch the test running with
the headless mode off,
you see it also dragging things over to
the drop area.
Then you of course expect the create TO
dialogue to be visible,
the date input to be visible,
cancel confirm buttons to be visible,
and so on, clicking the date to happen.
And so on.
And this is literally the moment where a
test engineer or developer can jump in
and refine it.
and make it complete,
fill up gaps whatsoever.
So it's definitely not the expectation
that this is a fire and forget solution.
It will just be a basis that helps us to
be faster.
Good.
Boyan.
Yeah, I have a couple of questions.
Support.
Uhh...
One of them is probably a priority wise.
The other one,
let's just first discuss what you
showcase,
how this guarantees that those tests are
in the every time,
because this is not something which this
thing would would provide,
like from the get-go.
It's basically the biggest issue we have
so far with the automation testing,
and I don't see how this solution would
fix this issue. Basically,
what there is like, what the leakage just,
for example,
the drug or the lot won't be visible next
time you go into this page. So, how,
Ohh.
how is this important and how?
can this track complex flows because yeah,
it's okay if you just click buttons,
just validate that whether we navigate to
different pages or stuff like this.
But I really doubt that this could
capture complex flows in the important
way, in a usable way,
that you can run like whenever we need
those and be confident that this would
capture the exact business behavior that
we need.
Mm-hmm.
So, I mean, generally speaking,
I get the idea just to involve like
someone from business just to test the
flows and record them and then translate
them,
but I don't think that this is like a
like a good enough approach going forward,
this complex flows would be practically.
Like the AI is incapable of tracking
those complex flows in the impotent way.
This is the important word here,
so that we can reuse or just work with.
Basically, it would, I would,
but I think that once the queue engineer
or the developer goes into this,
the generated AI scripts for complex
flows, once again, it's also important,
I think.
it would be like more effort to fix it
than actually starting from scratch and
with the exact concept how and how we
behave,
how the test should behave in an
important way.
I mean, like I said,
this does not solve the end-to-end
challenges in general.
It just is an intro to faster flow
tracking.
The idempotency challenge you just
mentioned is a general challenge of E2E
tests. It's...
That's not what's supposed to be fixed
with this.
And also,
we have to talk about how important the
idempotency is if you have a test data.
You know, you can.
Work with.
And it's okay to lose data.
Once it's processed,
we probably can find a way to make tests
reliable without having to use the exact
same ID, for example.
You just have to make sure there is
enough data with this exact same
signature, so all tests can run.
My opinion,
because the exact details of a record are
what matter,
not if it's the same exact record per ID.
But that's, like I said,
not the topic here.
This is a general E2E topic not resolved
with this proposal.
And we need to deal with that if we deal
with E2E tests. Agreed.
So what is the target of this proposal?
Target is to get more business flows in
in faster time.
and also with less.
Angular-specific knowledge.
Or dependencies,
maybe even the right word.
And, like,
the like my logical follow-up question is
like,
what should those flows be if we don't
have like some?
complex business interactions here.
I mean,
what are those laws that we can automate
with this,
which do not involve interactions with
items, with IDs, which cannot be, like,
may not be there the next time we go to
this particular page.
This is what the UI domain mapping solves.
Right,
you will have way more UI elements mapped
than currently.
So literally you can assert anything that
is defined as a UI relevant element for
the domain, like a toast.
or anything that's relevant to the user
flow.
And that literally makes it.
are feasible to cover any complexity in
my opinion.
Because it doesn't matter what the
complexity is.
If it's something that takes more steps,
fine.
It will just be a longer test script.
Marin.
But that's also the nature of end-to-end
tests anyway. This is not...
Changing that.
Yeah,
but the end-to-end test should cover like
the exact business law which we just
discussed that this recorder is not able
to properly like map because it works
with certain ideas and like this cannot
be properly captured with the recorder.
My question is like...
what are those business laws which do not
involve entities with IDs?
Because I can't think of such business
laws. I mean, yeah,
we can probably verify that the visual
stuff are there,
that let's say that the button is in a
certain location, if it's clicked,
it reacts and so on.
But this is not a business law per se.
This is just a...
basic front-end interaction with the
application. Like,
our testing should mainly focus, I think,
on the actual business processes which
bring value to the user,
not actually clicking on buttons or
whether a particular button is, let's say,
red. I mean,
what I think we should care about is
whether if a lot is assigned or a lake is
Yeah.
assigned,
that we create a transport order,
that everything is assigned,
that the basic interactions work.
I really don't see how this recorder
would make it easier for a QA,
for example, to automate this.
This is literally a gap that was not part
of the POC, but which could be introduced,
in my opinion, quite easily, which are,
like I said in the beginning,
are assertions or numbers, text, icons,
whatever confirms.
The business flow success.
This is something that could be added to
both the recall and therefore also to the
resulting tests which are auto-generated.
In my opinion, this can be tackled.
Yeah,
but like this is the biggest problem that
we have right now. I mean,
at least at least when I have like what I
remember from the test,
this is like the biggest problem there is
with automation testing right now.
We don't have issues capturing buttons or
stuff like this.
I see how this could help, for example,
just to just to help with the basic
visual stuff, but.
Like what, in my opinion,
the testing should cover, as I mentioned,
is that like the exact most important
business processes,
Yeah.
and we are not solving it here.
What? Name an example.
One.
You assign a Leicht to a transport order,
you check where everything is populated,
you open the driving instruction,
you validate that the data is correctly
filled there according to what you put
there.
Mhm.
Yeah,
that's exactly what this aims for with
the little gap I just mentioned.
It needs this final possibility to define
which UI domain mapping element has to
carry which value.
That's a little gap that will be can be
closed easily.
That's exactly my point.
I don't think that this is a little gap
Zanter.
in the 1st place.
I think this is an enormous gap.
This is the biggest problem we have right
now, as I mentioned,
in the whole automation testing framework.
It's not a little gap as I see it,
to be honest.
This is like the best, once again,
the biggest problem right now, as I know.
Mm.
Yeah, so let's hear out the others.
Actually,
I'm interested in more opinions because
time is up. Bizeva,
Yeah.
I think you were first.
Yeah,
I totally agree with Boyan because the
main issue with the current UI tests that
we have is exactly the test data. Because
You can't use them,
you can't use the tests without
completing test data every time before
starting them. You know what I mean?
They are not actually automation tests if
you have to change something every time
before you can start them.
This is the main.
The main concern we have,
and I totally agree with everything Boyan
just mentioned.
Okay.
Good, that's great feedback, Ivaylo.
I actually don't agree with this.
As far as I remember,
Okay.
last time I've been working on this
framework,
I tried my best to make the tests not
data dependent. And I mean,
this should be.
We at least double checked on the UI and
the API framework,
because they're quite old,
but the point is that that's why we used
Tsvetelina,
because it it can interact with the data
itself, and...
everything that is happening and there
were quite a lot of ideas how we can
improve this and the framework itself,
it's really good for this.
So it's not basically checking whether if
a button is clicked,
but what happens after the button is
clicked.
For example.
Boyan, may I interrupt? Because Valentin,
I would be really interested in your
opinion, but also the daily is starting.
Should we come back together again after
the daily for 5 minutes?
A.
Actually,
I think we need more time to prepare for
this because at least I didn't get the
chance to prepare and it would be it
For sure.
would be really nice if we investigate
and did some research before.
Just.
Yeah.
Sure.
Just.
Just quickly, so, Boyan, just quickly,
I could say, could give opinion here,
but first I have to get know more about
what's actually we have already done for
the automation, and then...
continue from that point. Otherwise,
I really don't know what's the current
status and so on. So yeah.
All right,
that's also good outcomes of both you,
Ivaylo and Valentin. Of course,
need that time.
Then I will wrap it up and we can then
align on what the next steps will be.
Just like a priority question which I had
like...
How, what, like,
where this lies in the priority list?
Is this something we should aim or aim
for after go live,
or where exactly this lies in the
priority list?
I mean, it's...
It's been something.
We should have had,
I get from the beginning,
but as we all know,
it was impossible to achieve.
in the last few months. In my opinion,
it's very important and therefore high
priority to have at least a certain set
of flows covered because it just makes
life easier with terms of regression.
But also I see that it could cover
to prevent manual work on new databases,
Nagle provides to us because we know that
databases are really different every time.
If we could run automated tests against
these new instances,
be it different environments or
completely new branches,
it would be a huge
Simplification and efficiency boost.
Yeah, yeah, I mean...
So yeah,
getting things live is of course highest
Like.
prior,
but I imagine something like working on
this in parallel or putting a part of the
manual testing work into this,
something like that.
We have to align on that.
I don't think there is capacity for this.
I can tell you right away.
I mean, until the go live,
there is absolutely no capacity from
anybody to take after to to start working
on this.
Yeah,
we need to align on that with Max as well.
Yeah, I mean, basically for me,
this will be something I will be tackling
and adding tests.
Um, whenever I got time.
And we will need to see how we're moving
forward with the manual testing.
OK, then.
We'll wrap it up.
Max and I will plan a new follow-up with
enough time for everybody to prepare.
Great.
Let's move to the lady.
Thanks, bye.
Bye.
Cheers.
Thank you.